---
layout: post
title: 18 June 2018 
date: 2018-06-18 09:43:42 BST
---
+ Continued reading through Eloquent JavaScript 3rd Edition Book.
+ Continued with [Avanced Web Developer Boot Camp Udemy Course](https://www.udemy.com/the-advanced-web-developer-bootcamp).
 
### My attempts at the Eloquent JavaScrip Function excersies. 
You can copy the code and run it [on this website](https://repl.it/languages/javascript). 

#### Minimum function - Return the minium from 2 arguments.
```javascript
function min(x, y){
  return Math.min(x, y);
}
min(1, 2);
//Output Below:
//1working
```

#### Recursion function - Return a boolean (true/false) result if the number is even. % (remainder operator) Not allowed.
This exercise was challenging. To understand this problem I needed to do more research online on how Recursion worked.

The code will do checks using a conditional IF statement. The idea of Recursion is to invoke the same function inside its self create a loop. The loop will either add or subtract the argument depending on its value for example; the number 75 will keep subtracting 2 until it reaches either 0 or 1. When the numbers reach 0 or 1 the IF conditional statement is called. If the result ends in 0, it will output true (it's even) Otherwise if it ends in 1 it will output false (it's odd).

It appears simple, but understanding the concept was key in solving this challenge. 

```javascript
function isEven(num) {
  if(num === 0) {
    return true;
  } else if (num === 1){
    return false;
  } else if (num < 0) {
    return isEven(num + 2);
  } else {
    return isEven(num - 2)
  }
}
//Output below:
//isEven(1); false
//isEven(2); true
//isEven(50); true
//isEven(75); false

//isEven(-1); false
//isEven(-2); true
//isEven(-50); true
//isEven(-75); false
```
#### Bean Counting - Function challenge 
I split this problem into multiple parts.

This part counts only how many capital B characters there are in a given String argument. This solution works by looping through the length of the given string and checking if it matches a B, if it does the number is added to the count variable and returned when finished. 

```javascript
function countBs(str) {
  let count = 0;
  for (let i = 0; i < str.length; i++) {
    if (str[i] === "B") {
      count += 1;
    }
  }
  return count;
}
//Output below:
//countBs("BumbleBee"); 2
```

The final part to this problem was to have a dynamic JavaScript function to ensure that the character could be changed and NOT fixed to the character "B". I realised I could just invoke the countChar(str, "B") function with the invoked string and fixed to the character "B". 
This follows DRY (don't repeat yourself)  principles. I refactored the code above and used the char parameter to enable me to switch out "B" to its own changeable argument. 

```javascript
function countBs(str) {
  return countChar(str, "B")
}

function countChar(str, char) {
    let count = 0;
  for (let i = 0; i < str.length; i++) {
    if (str[i] === char) {
      count += 1;
    }
  }
  return count;
}

countBs("BumbleBee"); 2
countChar("We are looking for a characters in this sentence", "a"); 4
```
